01-Market Risk Measurement and Management
单项选择题
1.Natural gas prices exhibit seasonal volatility. Specifically, the entire forward curve is
more volatile during the wintertime. Which of the following statements concerning VAR is
correct if the VAR is estimated using unweighted historical simulation and a three-year sample
period?
A.We will\noverstate VAR in the summer and understate VAR in the winter.
B.We will\noverstate VAR in the summer and overstate VAR in the winter.
C.We will\nunderstate VAR in the summer and understate VAR in the winter.
D.We will\nunderstate VAR in the summer and overstate VAR in the winter.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】This method essentially estimates the average volatilityover a three-year window,
ignoring seasonality. As a result, if the conditionalvolatility is higher during the winter,
the method will understate the truerisk, and conversely for the summer.(0)
 
2.You are given the following information about the returns of stock P and stock Q: Variance of
return of stock P = 100.0. Variance of return of stock Q = 225.0. Covariance between the return
of stock P and the return of stock Q = 53.2. At the end of 1999, you are holding USD 4 million
in stock P. You are considering a strategy of shifting USD 1 million into stock Q and keeping
USD 3 million in stock P. What percentage of risk, as measured by standard deviation of return,
can be reduced by this strategy?
A.0.005
B.0.05
C.0.074
D.0.097
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】The variance of the original portfolio is 1,600, implyinga volatility of 40. The
new portfolio has variance of 32 × 100 + 12 × 225 + 2 ×53.2 × 3 × 1= 1,444. This gives a
volatility of 38, which is a reduction of5%. (8)
 
3.You are asked to mark to market a book of plain-vanilla stock options. The trader is short
deep out-of-the-money options and long at-the-money options. There is a pronounced smile for
these options. The trader's bonus increases as the value of his book increases. Which approach
should you use to mark the book?
A.Use the implied volatility of at-the-money options\nbecause the estimation of the volatility
is more
B.Use the average of the implied volatilities for the\ntraded options for which you have data
because
C.For each option, use the implied volatility of the\nmost similar option traded on the market.
D.Use the historical volatility because doing so\ncorrects for the pricing mistakes in the
option mark
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The book should be marked using volatilities that giveprices that are closest to
market prices. This means using the ISDs of the mostsimilar options. Also, using ATM ISDs, as
suggested in answer A, willunderstate the value of the short OTM options, which artificially
inflates thetrader’s profit.(0)
 
4.A risk manager wants to study the behavior of a portfolio that depends on only two economic
variables, X and Y. X is uniformly distributed between 4 and 7, and Y is uniformly distributed
between 5 and 8. The risk manager wants to model their joint distribution, H(X,Y). The theorem
of Sklar proves that, for any joint distribution H, there is a copula C such that: 
A.H(3X + 4, 3Y + 5) is equal to C[X,Y].
B.H(X,Y) is equal to C[u,d] where u is the density\nmarginal distribution of X and d is the
density ma
C.H(X,Y) is equal to C[(X – 4)/3, (Y – 5)/3].
D.H[(X - 4)/3, (Y- 5)/3] is equal to C(X.Y).
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Sklar’s theorem proves that if F(x,y) is a jointdistribution function with
continuous marginals Fx(x) = u and Fy(y) = v, then F(x,y) can be written in terms of a
uniquefunction C(u,v) such as F(x,y) = C(u,v). In this case u = (X – 4)/3 (thecumulative
marginal function of X, which is uniformly distributed between 4 and7) and  v = (Y –
5)/3. (3)
 
5.A committee of risk management practitioners discusses the difference between pricing deep
out-of-the-money call options on FBX stock and pricing deep out-of-the-money call options on
the EUR/JPY foreign exchange rate using the Black-Scholes-Merton (BSM) model. The practitioners
price these options based on two distinct probability distributions of underlying asset prices
at the option expiration date:  • A lognormal probability distribution • An implied risk-
neutral probability distribution obtained from the volatility smile for options of the same
maturity  Using the lognormal, instead of the implied risk-neutral probability distribution,
will tend to: 
A.Price the option on FBX relatively high and price the\noption on EUR\/JPY relatively low.
B.Price the option on FBX relatively low and price the\noption on EUR\/JPY relatively high.
C.Price the option on FBX relatively low and price the\noption on EUR\/JPY relatively low.
D.Price the option on FBX relatively high and price the\noption on EUR\/JPY relatively high.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The implied distribution of the underlying equity pricesderived using the general
volatility smile of equity options has a heavier lefttail and a less heavy right tail than a
lognormal distribution of underlyingprices. Therefore, using the lognormal distribution of
prices causesdeep-out-of-the-money call options on the underlying to be priced
relativelyhigh.   The implied distribution of underlying foreign currencyprices derived using
the general volatility smile of foreign currency optionshas heavier tails than a lognormal
distribution of underlying prices.Therefore, using the lognormal distribution of prices
causesdeep-out-of-the-money call options on the underlying to be priced relatively low.  (2)
 
6.Based on Basel II rules for backtesting, a penalty is given to banks that have more than four
exceptions to their 1-day 99% VaR over the course of 250 trading days. The supervisor gives
these penalties based on four criteria. Which of the following causes of exceptions is most
likely to lead to a penalty? 
A.The bank increases its intraday trading activity.
B.A large move in interest rates was combined with a\nsmall move in correlations.
C.The bank’s model calculates interest rate risk based\non the median duration of the bonds in
the por
D.A sudden market crisis in an emerging market leads to\nlosses in the equity positions in that
countr
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】In the case of a bank that changed positions morefrequently during the day, a
penalty should be considered, but it is notnecessarily given. In the case of bad luck, no
penalty is given, as would bethe case for a bank affected by unpredictable movements in rates
or markets.However, when risk models are not precise enough, a penalty is typically givensince
model accuracy could have easily been improved.(0)
 
7.A portfolio manager owns a portfolio of options on a non-dividend paying stock LTM. The
portfolio is made up of 5,000 deep in-the-money call options on LTM and 25,000 deep out-of-the-
money call options on LTM. The portfolio also contains 10,000 forward contracts on LTM. LTM is
trading at USD 84. Assuming 250 trading days in a year and the volatility of LTM is 23% per
year, which of the following amounts would be closest to the 1day VaR of the portfolio at the
99 percent confidence level? 
A.USD 2,701
B.USD 14,235
C.USD 30,151
D.USD 42,706
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】We need to map the portfolio to a position in theunderlying stock LTM. A deep in-
the-money call has a delta of approximately 1,a deep out-of-the-money call has a delta of
approximately zero and forwardshave a delta of 1. The net portfolio has a delta of about
1*5,000 + 0*25,000 +1*10,000 = 15,000 and is approximately gamma neutral.   Let: a = 2.33
(99% confidence level)        S = price per share of stock LTM = USD 84        Δ
=  delta of theposition = 15,000        σ = volatility of LTM = 0.23  Therefore, the
1-day VaR estimate at 99 percentconfidence level is computed as follows:  a * S * Δ * σ *
sqrt(1/T) = 2.33 * 84 * 15,000 *0.23/sqrt(250) = USD 42,706  (0)
 
8.Which of the following about the most common distribution used for peaks-over-threshold is
false? I. The distribution requires a threshold, shape and scaling parameter. II. The
distribution of these extreme values follows the GEV distribution. III. The distribution
produces a curve that dips below the normal distribution prior to the tail and then moves above
the normal distribution in a curved shaped until it reached the extreme tail. IV. The
distribution provides a more accurate estimate of the event probabilities in the distribution
tail, allowing VaR to be computed at high confidence levels.
A.I and II
B.II only
C.III and IV
D.IV only
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】GPD requires a threshold, shape and scaling parameter. Thedistribution of these
extreme values follow the GPD. GPD produces a curve thatdips below the normal distribution
prior to the tail and then moves above thenormal distribution in a curved shaped until it
reached the extreme tail. GPDprovides a more accurate estimate of the event probabilities in
thedistribution tail, allowing VaR to be computed at high confidence levels. (3)
 
9.Suppose that a central bank’s policy is to allow an exchange rate to fluctuate between 0.97
and 1.03. What pattern of implied volatilities for options on the exchange rate would you
expect to see?
A.
B.
C.
D.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Because of the limiting range of volatility, it meansthat the minimum of the
exchange rate is 0.97 and the maximum of it is 1.03. comparedwith the lognormal distribution,
the distribution of the implied probability ofthe exchange rate have a thinner left tail and a
thinner right tail. So theexpected implied volatility of the call/ put option which is out-of-
money orin-the-money is lower than that is at-the-money.(3)
 
10.Suppose an investor expects that the 1-year rate will remain at 6% for the first year for a
2-year zero-coupon bond. The investor also projects a 50% probability that the 1-year spot rate
will be 8% in one year and a 50% probability that the 1-year spot rate will be 4% in one year.
Which of the following inequalities most accurately reflects the convexity effect for this 2-
year bond using Jensen’s inequality formula?
A.$0.89031 > $0.89000
B.$0.89000> $0.80000
C.$0.94340> $0.89031
D.$0.94373> $0. 94340
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
11.A risk analyst is comparing the use of parametric and non-parametric approaches for
calculating VaR and is concerned about some of the characteristics present in the loss data.
Which of the following distribution characteristics would make parametric approaches the
favored method to use?
A.Skewness in the distribution
B.Fat tails in the distribution
C.Scarcity of high magnitude loss events
D.Heteroskedasticity in the distribution
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Non-parametric approaches can accommodate fat tails,skewness, and any other non-
normal features that can cause problems forparametric approaches. However, if the data period
that is used in estimationincludes few losses or losses with low magnitude, non-parametric
methods willoften produce risk measures that are too low. Hence parametric methods would bemore
appropriate in those situations.(0)
 
12.Computing VaR on a portfolio containing a very large number of positions can be simplified
by mapping these positions to a smaller number of elementary risk factors. Which of the
following mappings would be adequate?
A.USD\/EUR forward contracts are mapped on the USD\/JPY\nspot exchange rate.
B.Each position in a corporate bond portfolio is mapped\non the bond with the closest maturity
among a
C.Government bonds paying regular coupons are mapped on\nzero-coupon government bonds.
D.A position in the stock market index is mapped on a\nposition in a stock within that index.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Mapping government bonds paying regular coupons onto zerocoupon government bonds is
an adequate process, because both categories ofbonds are government issued and therefore have a
very similar sensitivity torisk factors. However, this is not a perfect mapping since the
sensitivity ofboth classes of bonds to specific risk factors (i.e. changes in interest
rates)may differ.(0)
13.A risk manager is pricing a 10-year call option on 10-year Treasuries using a successfully
tested pricing model. Current interest rate volatility is high and the risk manager is
concerned about the effect this may have on short-term rates when pricing the option. Which of
the following actions would best address the potential for negative short-term interest rates
to arise in the model?
A.The risk manager uses a normal distribution of\ninterest rates.
B.When short-term rates are negative, the risk manager\nadjusts the risk-neutral probabilities.
C.When short-term rates are negative, the risk manager\nincreases the volatility.
D.When short-term rates are negative, the risk manager\nsets the rate to zero.
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】Negative short-term interest rates can arise in modelsfor which the terminal
distribution of interest rates follows a normaldistribution. The existence of negative interest
rates does not make mucheconomic sense since market participants would generally not lend cash
atnegative interest rates when they can hold cash and earn a zero return. Onemethod that can be
used to address the potential for negative interest rateswhen constructing interest rate trees
is to set all negative interest rates tozero. This localizes the change in assumptions to
points in the distributioncorresponding to negative interest rates and preserves the original
rate treefor all other observations. In comparison, adjusting the risk neutralprobabilities
would alter the dynamics across the entire range of interestrates and therefore not be an
optimal approach.When a model displays the potential for negativeshort-term interest rates, it
can still be a desirable model to use in certainsituations, especially in cases where the
valuation depends more on the averagepath of the interest rate, such as in valuing coupon
bonds. Therefore, thepotential for negative rates does not automatically rule out the use of
themodel. (2)
 
14.A large commercial bank is using VaR as its main risk measurement tool. Expected shortfall
(ES) is suggested as a better alternative to use during market turmoil. What should be
understood regarding VaR and ES before modifying current practices?
A.Despite being more complicated to calculate, ES is\neasier to backtest than VaR.
B.Relative to VaR, ES leads to more required economic\ncapital for the same confidence level.
C.While VaR ensures that the estimate of portfolio risk\nis less than or equal to the sum of
the risks
D.Both VaR and ES account for the severity of losses\nbeyond the confidence threshold.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Expected shortfall is always greater than or equal to VaRfor a given confidence
level, since ES accounts for the severity of expectedlosses beyond a particular confidence
level, while VaR measures the minimumexpected loss at that confidence level. Therefore, ES
would lead to a higherlevel of required economic capital than VaR for the same confidence
level. Inpractice, however, regulators often correct for the difference between ES andVaR by
lowering the required confidence level for banks using ES compared tothose using VaR.(2)
 
15.Tycoon Bank announced that there were eight days in the previous year for which losses
exceeded the daily 99% VAR. As a result, concerns emerged about the accuracy of the VAR
implementation. Assuming that there are 250 days in the year, which of the following statements
is/are correct? I. Using a two-tailed 99% confidence level z-score test, the current VAR
implementation understates the actual risk in the bank's portfolio. II. Using a two-tailed 99%
confidence level z-score test, the current VAR implementation overstates the actual risk in the
bank's portfolio. III. The bank's exception rates for VAR may be inaccurate if the bank's
portfolio changes incorporate the returns from low-risk but highly profitable intraday market
making activities. IV. If these eight exceptions all happened in the previous month, the model
should be reexamined for faulty assumptions and invalid parameters.
A.I and III
B.I, III, and IV
C.III only
D.I, II, and IV
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】The z-score gives (8-2.5)(250*0.01*0.99)^(1/2)=3.5. This istoo high (greater than
2), which leads to rejection of the null that the VARmodel is well calibrated. Hence, VAR is
too low and statement I. is correct.Statement II. Is incorrect. However, this may be due to
intraday trading, so III.iscorrect, too. Finally, if all eight exceptions occurred in the last
month,there is bunching, and the mode should be reexamined, so IV. is correct.(2)
 
16.Which of these statements regarding risk factor mapping approaches is/are correct? I. 
Under the cash flow (CF) mapping approach, only the risk associated with the average maturity
of a fixed-income portfolio is mapped. II.  Cash flow mapping is the least precise method of
risk mapping for a fixed-income portfolio. III.  Under the duration mapping approach, the risk
of a bond is mapped to a zero-coupon bond of the same duration. IV.  Using more risk factors
generally leads to better risk measurement but also requires more time to be devoted to the
modeling process and risk computation.
A.I and II
B.I, III, and IV
C.III and IV
D.IV only
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Under the cash flow (CF) mapping approach, each payment(and not only the last one)
is associated with a different risk factor, sostatement I is incorrect. Statement II is
incorrect because the CF mappingapproach is more correct than duration or maturity mapping.(1)
 
17.The historical simulation (HS) approach is based on the empirical distributions and a large
number of risk factors. The RiskMetrics approach assumes normal distributions and uses mapping
on equity indices. The HS approach is more likely to provide an accurate estimate of VAR than
the RiskMetrics approach for a portfolio that consists of
A.A small number of emerging market securities
B.A small number of broad market indexes
C.A large number of emerging market securities
D.A large number of broad market indexes
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】The question deals with the distribution of the assetsand the effect of
diversification. Emerging market securities are more volatileand less likely to be normally
distributed than broad market indices. Inaddition, a small portfolio is less likely to be well
represented by a mappingapproach, and is less likely to be normal. The RiskMetrics approach
assumesthat the conditional distribution is normal and simplifies risk by mapping.This will be
acceptable with a large number of securities with distributionsclose to the normal, which is
answer d. Answer a. describes the leastdiversified portfolio, for which the HS method is
best.(10)
 
18.A hedge fund manager has to choose a risk model for a large “equity market neutral”
portfolio, which has zero beta. Many of the stocks held are recent IPOs. Among the following
alternatives, the best is:
A.A single index model with no specific risk, estimated\nover the last year
B.A diagonal index model with idiosyncratic risk,\nestimated over the last year
C.A model that maps positions on industry and style\nfactors
D.A full covariance matrix model using a very short\nwindow
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Answer a. is incorrect because it only considers theportfolio beta, which is zero
by construction. So, it would erroneouslyconclude that there is no risk. Answer b. is better
but would miss the risk ofthe IPO positions because they have no history. Answer c. will
produceunreliable numbers because of the short window. The best solution is to replacethe IPO
positions by exposures on industry and style factors. (4)
 
19.Brenda Williams is a risk analyst who wants to model the dependence between asset returns
using copulas and must convince her manager that this is the best approach. Which of the
following statements are correct? I.  The dependence between the return distributions of
portfolio assets is critical for risk measurement. II.  Correlation estimates often appear
stable in periods of low market volatility and then become volatile in stressed market
conditions. Risk measures calculated using correlations estimated over long horizons will
therefore underestimate risk in stressed periods. III.  Pearson correlation is a linear
measure of dependence between the return of two assets equal to the ratio of the covariance of
the asset returns to the product of their volatilities. IV.  Using copulas, one can construct
joint return distribution functions from marginal distribution functions in a way that allows
for more general types of dependence structure of the asset returns.
A.I, II, and III
B.II and IV
C.I, II, III, and IV
D.I, III, and IV
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】The dependence is critical, so statement I is correct.The usual Pearson correlation
is a linear measure of dependence, so statementIII is correct. Statement IV is also correct.
For statement II correlationsindeed change over stressed periods, but it is not clear whether
this biaseslong-term correlations upward or downward. Also, the effect on the portfoliorisk
depends on the positioning. Hence, there is not enough information tosupport statement II.(6)
 
20.In early 2000, a risk manager calculates the VAR for a technology stock fund based on the
last three years of data. The strategy of the fund is to buy stocks and write out-of-the-money
puts. The manager needs to compute VAR. Which of the following methods would yield results that
are least representative of the risks inherent in the portfolio?
A.Historical\nsimulation with full repricing
B.Delta–normal\nVAR assuming zero drift
C.Monte Carlo\nstyle VAR assuming zero drift with full repricing
D.Historical simulation using delta- -equivalents for all positions
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】Because the portfolio has options, methods a. or c. basedon full repricing would be
appropriate. Next, recall that technology stockshave had a big increase in price until March
2000. From 1996 to 1999, the NASDAQindex went from 1300 to 4000. This creates a positive drift
in the series ofreturns. So, historical simulation without an adjustment for this drift
wouldbias the simulated returns upward, thereby underestimating VAR.(12)
 
21.Jim Johannsen has collected a large data set of daily market returns for three emerging
markets. He is concerned about the non-normal skew in the data and is considering non-
parametric estimation methods. Johannsen is not familiar with these techniques and he discusses
the procedure with his colleague Lily Tong. During the course of their discussion, Lily makes
the following statements: I. Age-weighted historical simulation reduces the impact of older
observations only after surpassing a user-de fined threshold. II. Volatility-weighted
historical simulation augments historic returns with an additive volatility adjustment. III.
Filtered historical estimation combines sophisticated parametric and dynamic volatility
estimation techniques. How many of Ms. Tong's statements are correct?
A.Zero.
B.One.
C.Two.
D.Three
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Statement I is incorrect because age-weightedhistorical simulation reduces the
weighting of each successive observation by aconstant decay factor. Statement Il is incorrect
as volatility-weightedhistorical simulation uses a multiplicative adjustment not additive.
StatementIII is incorrect because filtered historical simulation combines the
historicalsimulation model with conditional volatility models.(0)
 
22.The term structure model that incorporates constant drift is referred to as Model 2. This
model augments Model 1 and is expressed as: dr=λdt + σdw, where λ is the drift term. Using
Model 2, if we assume that the current short-term rate is 8%, annual volatility is 200 bps, and
annual drift is 0.48%, which of the following statements is incorrect?
A.The expected\nvalue of dw equals zero.
B.The monthly\ndrift is 4 basis points.
C.The annual risk\npremium is 68 basis points.
D.The drift may be\nattributed to a 20 basis point change in the rate and a 28 basis point risk
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The drift term is some combination of the expected changein the short-term rare and
the risk premium, which is not necessarily entirelyattributed to the risk premium.(11)
 
23.The value today of an option-free, 12% annual coupon bond with two years remaining until
maturity is closest to:
 
A.109.927
B.111.485.
C.112.282.
D.113.394.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
24.Mill Street Bank has accumulated a long history of loan returns. Mill Street believes that
the underlying distribution of loan returns should follow a normal distribution with a mean of
ten and a standard deviation of three. The following table identifies tail VaRs at different
confidence level. Assume the initial analysis uses five tail slices. Calculate the expected
shortfall at the 95% confidence level and identify the effect on ES when the number of tail
slices increases.
 
A.
B.无
C.无
D.无
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The expected shortfall calculation takes theaverage of the expected shortfalls at
varying confidences in the tail region.Since we are told that there are only five tail slices,
there will be four(i.e., n-1) VaR quantiles. Therefore, ES = [(3.25 + 3.6 + 4.00 + 4.75) / (5 -
1)] = 3.90. Note that the tail VaR at 95% is not included in the calculationsince ES is the
average loss beyond 5% VaR. In addition, as the number of tail slices increases, the average
ES willincrease as the number of higher confidence tail VaRs increases.     (1)
 
25.Suppose an investor expects that the 1-year rate will remain at 5% for the first year for a
2-year zero-coupon bond. In addition, the investor estimates a 50% probability that 1-year spot
rates will be 6% in one year and a 50% probability that 1-year spot rates will be 4% in one
year. Which of the following inequalities most accurately reflects the convexity effect for
this 2-year bond using Jensen's inequality formula?
A.$0.95247 >\n$0.95238.
B.$0.91584 >\n$0.91575.
C.$0.90711 >\n$0.90703.
D.$0.89856 >\n$0.89847.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Thus, Jensen's inequality reveals that$0.90711> $0.90703.(2)
 
26.A risk manager is analyzing a 1-day 98% VaR model. Assuming 252 days in a year, what is the
maximum number of daily losses exceeding the 1-day 98% VaR that is acceptable in a 1-year
backtest to conclude, at a 95% confidence level, that the model is calibrated correctly?
A.5
B.9
C.10
D.12
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】The risk manager will reject the hypothesis that themodel is correctly calibrated
if the number x of losses exceeding the VaR issuch that:(x-pT)/sqrt(p(1-p)T)>1.96Where p
represents the failure rate and is equal to1-98%, or 2%; and T is the number of observations,
252. Then 1.96=two-tailconfidence level quantile → x>1.96*sqrt(2%*98%*252)+p*T=9.40.So the
maximum number of exceedances would be 9 toconclude that the model is calibrated correctly.(7)
 
27.A risk manager is constructing a term structure model and intends to use the Cox-Ingersoll-
Ross Model. Which of the following describes this model?
A.The model presumes that the volatility of the short\nrate will increase at a predetermined
rate.
B.The model presumes that the volatility of the short\nrate will decline exponentially to a
constant l
C.The model presumes that the basis-point volatility of\nthe short rate will be proportional to
the ra
D.The model presumes that the basis-point volatility of\nthe short rate will be proportional to
the sq
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】In the CIR model, the basis-point volatility of theshort rate is not independent of
the short rate as other simpler models assume.The annualized basis-point volatility equals and
therefore increase as a function of thesquare root of the rate.(2)
 
28.Which of the following statements about correlation and copula are correct? i. Copula
enables the structures of correlation between variables to be calculated separately from their
marginal distributions. ii. Transformation of variables does not change their correlation
structure. iii. Correlation can be a useful measure of the relationship between variables drawn
from a distribution without a defined variance. iv. Correlation is a good measure of dependence
when the measured variables are distributed as multivariate elliptical.
A.i and iv only
B.ii, iii, and iv only
C.i and iii only
D.ii and iv only
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】“I” is true. Using the copula approach, we can calculatethe structures of
correlation variables separately from the marginaldistributions. “iv” is also true.
Correlation is a good measure of dependencewhen the measured variables are distributed as
multivariate elliptical.“ii” is false. The correlation between transformedvariables will not
always be the same as the correlation between those samevariables before transformation. Data
transformation can sometimes alter thecorrelation estimate. “iii” is also false. Correlation
is not defined unlessvariances are finite.(0)
 
29.A portfolio manager owns a portfolio of options on a non-dividend paying stock RTX. The
portfolio is made up of 10,000 deep in-the-money call options on RTX and 50,000 deep out-of-
money call options on RTX. The portfolio also contains 20,000 forward contracts on RTX. RTX is
trading at USD 100. If the volatility of RTX is 30% per year, which of the following amounts
would be closest to the 1-day VaR of the portfolio at the 95 percent confidence level, assuming
252 trading days in a year?
A.USD 932
B.USD 92,263
C.USD 111,122
D.USD 131,892
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
30.Let X be a random variable representing the daily loss of your portfolio. The “peaks over
threshold” (POT) approach considers a threshold value, u, of X and the distribution of excess
losses over this threshold. Which of the following statements about this application of extreme
value theory is correct?
A.To apply the POT approach, the distribution of X must\nbe elliptical and known.
B.If X is normally distributed, the distribution of\nexcess losses requires the estimation of
only one
C.To apply the POT approach, one must choose a\nthreshold, u, which is high enough that the
number of
D.As the threshold, u, increases, the distribution of\nexcess losses over u converges to a
generalized
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】The distribution of excess losses over u converges to ageneralized Pareto
distribution as the threshold value u increases. The distribution of X itself can be any of the
commonlyused distributions: normal, lognormal, t, etc., and will usually be unknown.The
distribution of excess losses requires the estimation of two parameters, apositive scale
parameter β and a shape or tail index parameter ξ. Οne mustchoose a threshold u that is high
enough so that the theory applies but alsolow enough so that there are observations in excess
of u. (5)
 
31.The Chief Risk Officer of Martingale Investments Group is planning a change in methodology
for some of the risk management models used to estimate risk measures. His aim is to move from
models that use the normal distribution of returns to models that use the distribution of
returns implied by market prices. Martingale Group has a large long position in the German
equity stock index DAX which has a volatility smile that slopes downward to the right. How will
the change in methodology affect the estimate of expected shortfall (ES)?
A.ES with the updated models will be larger than the old estimate.
B.ES with the updated models will be smaller than the old estimate.
C.ES will remain unchanged.
D.Insufficient information to determine.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】A volatility smile is a common graphical shape that results from plotting the
strike price and implied volatility of a group of options with the same expiration date. Since
the volatility smile is downward sloping to the right, the implied distribution has a fatter
left tail compared to the lognormal distribution of returns. This means that an extreme
decrease in the DAX has a higher probability of occurrence under the implied distribution than
the lognormal. The ES will therefore be larger when the methodology is modified.(4)
 
32.Which of the following statements about correlation and copula are correct? i. Copula
enables the structures of correlation between variables to be calculated separately from their
marginal distributions. ii. Transformation of variables does not change their correlation
structure. iii. Correlation can be a useful measure of the relationship between variables drawn
from a distribution without a defined variance. iv. Correlation s a good measure of dependence
when the measured variables are distributed as multivariate elliptical.
A.i and iv only
B.ii, iii, and iv only
C.i and iii only
D.ii and iv only
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】"i” is true. Using the copula approach, we can calculate the structures of
correlation between variables separately from the marginal distributions. “iv” is also true.
Correlation is a good measure of dependence when the measured variables are distributed as
multivariate elliptical. “ii” is false. The correlation between transformed variables will
not always be the same as the correlation between those same variables before transformation.
Data transformation can sometimes alter the correlation estimate. “iii” is also false.
Correlation is not defined unless variances are finite.(1)
 
33.If volatility(0) is the current (today’s) volatility estimate and volatility(t) is the
volatility estimate on a previous day(t), which best describes volatility-weighted historical
simulation?
A.First conduct typical historical simulation (HS) on return series. Then multiply VaR by
volatility
B.First conduct typical historical simulation (HS) on return series. Then multiply VaR by
volatility
C.Each historical return(t) is replaced by: return(t)*volatility(0)\/volatility(t). Then
conduct typi
D.Each historical return(t) is replaced by: return(t)*volatility(t)\/volatility(0). Then
conduct typi
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Each historical return(t) is replaced by: return(t)*volatility(0)/volatility(t).
Then conduct typical historical simulation (HS) on adjusted return series For example, if on
the historical day (t), the return(t) was -2.0% and volatility(t) was 10%, while today’s
volatility estimate is 20%, then the adjusted return is -2.0% * 20%/10% = - 4.0% . In this way,
“Actual returns in any period t are therefore increased (or decreased), depending on whether
the current forecast of volatility is greater (or less than) the estimated volatility for
period t . We now calculate the HS P/L using [the adjusted returns] instead of the original
data set, and then proceed to estimate HS VaRs or ESs in the traditional way (i.e., with equal
weights, etc.).(2)
 
34.Portfolios (X) and (Y) each have volatility of 20%, but portfolio (Y) has a higher return
and therefore its absolute VaR is lower; i.e., Absolute VaR = - return * T + deviate *
volatility * SQRT(T). Which coherence property does this illustrate?
A.Monotonicity
B.Subadditivity
C.Positive Homogeneity
D.Translational invariance
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】Monotonicity means that a random cash flow or future value Y that is always greater
than X should have a lower risk: this makes sense, because it means that less has to be added
to Y than to X to make it acceptable, and the amount to be added is the risk measure.(2)
 
35.Consider a trader with an investment in a corporate bond with face value of $100,000 and
default probability of 0.5%. Over the next period, we can either have no default, with a return
of zero, or default with a loss of $100,000. The payoffs are thus $100,000 with probability of
0.5% and +$0 with probability of 99.5%. Since the probability of getting $0 is greater than
99%, the VAR at the 99% confidence level is $0, without taking the mean into account. This is
consistent with the definition that VAR is the smallest loss, such that the right-tail
probability is at least 99%. Now, consider a portfolio invested in three bonds (A, B, C) with
the same characteristics and independent payoffs. Please compute the portfolio VAR at the 99%
confidence level (using loss distribution method):
A.$0
B.$100,000
C.$200,000
D.$300,000
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
36.It is not always apparent how risk should be quantified for a given bank when there are many
different possible risk measures to consider. Prior to defining pecific measures, one should be
aware of the general characteristics of ideal risk measures. Such measures should be intuitive,
stable, easy to understand, coherent, and interpretable in economic terms. In addition, the
risk decomposition process must be simple and meaningful for a given risk measure. Standard
deviation, value at risk (VaR), expected shortfall (ES), and spectral and distorted risk
measures are commonly used measures to calculate economic capital. However, it is not easy to
select a risk measure to calculate economic capital, as each measure has its respective pros
and cons. Which of the following statements pertaining to the pros and cons of these risk
measures is not accurate?
A.Standard deviation does not have the property of monotonicity, and therefore, it is not
coherent.
B.VaR does not have the property of subadditivity, and therefore; it is not coherent.
C.ES is not stable regardless of the loss distribution.
D.Spectral and distorted risk measures are neither intuitive nor commonly used in practice.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Expected shortfall’s stability as a measure of risk depends on the loss
distribution.(2)
 
37.The annual mean and volatility of a portfolio are 10% and 40%, respectively. The current
value of the portfolio is GBP 1,000,000. How does the 1-year 95% VaR that is calculated using a
normal distribution assumption (normal VaR) compare with the 1-year 95% VaR that is calculated
using the lognormal distribution assumption (lognormal VaR)?
A.Lognormal VaR is greater than normal VaR by GBP130,400
B.Lognormal VaR is greater than normal VaR by GBP 175,900
C.Lognormal VaR is less than normal VaR by GBP 130,400
D.Lognormal VaR is less than normal VaR by GBP 175,900
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
 
 
38.A trader has an option position in crude oil with a delta of 100000 barrels and gamma of -
50000 barrels per dollar move in price. Using the delta-gamma methodology, compute the VaR on
this position, assuming the extreme move on crude oil is $2.00 per barrel.
A.$100,000
B.$200,000
C.$300,000
D.$400,000
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
 
39.Katherine McCollin is a risk manager who has been assigned the task of designing a risk
engine for VaR mapping. Which of the following statements accurately describes VaR mapping?
A.Beta is an important factor in mapping fixed-income portfolios.
B.Duration mapping is an appropriate method for estimating VaR for mapping forwards and
interest-rate
C.VaR mapping involves identifying common risk factors among positions in a portfolio and
mapping all
D.A return-based analysis may fail to spot style drift or hidden risks.
参考答案：D
【莽学解析】VaR mapping involves identifying common risk factors among positions in a portfolio
and mapping those positions to risk factors. A return-based analysis may fail to spot style
drift or hidden risks. Duration, is an important factor in mapping fixed-income portfolios. The
delta-normal method is an appropriate method for estimating VaR for mapping forwards and
interest-rate swaps.(0)
 
40.The following decision tree of expected 1-year rates is for a 2-year zero-coupon bond with a
face value of $1. 
 
 
Suppose that investors are risk averse and require a risk premium of 30 basis points for each
year of interest rate risk. What is the investor's expected or required return for a 2-year
zero-coupon bond with a face value of $1 using the expected 1-year rates in the decision tree?
A.2.7%.
B.3.0%.
C.3.3%.
D.3.6%.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
 
 
41.An analyst is modeling spot rate changes using short rate term structure models. The current
short-term interest rate is 5% with a volatility of 80 bps. After one month passes the
realization of dω, a normally distributed random variable with mean 0 and standard deviation 
, is -0.5. Assume a constant interest rate drift, λ, of 0.36%. What should the analyst compute
as the new spot rate? 
A.5.37%
B.4.63%
C.5.76%
D.0.0424
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】
 
 
 dr = (0.36%/12) + (0.8*(-0.5)) = -0.37% = -37bps Since the initial short-term rate was 5% and
dr is -0.37%, the new spot rate in one month is: 5% - 0.37% = 4.63% (1)
 
42.John Jones, FRM, is discussing the appropriate usage of mean-reverting models relative to
no-drift models, models that incorporate drift, and Ho-Lee models. Jones makes the following
statements: Statement 1: Both Model 1 (no drift) and the Vasicek model assume parallel shifts
from changes in the short-term rate.  Statement 2: The Vasicek model assumes decreasing
volatility of future short-term rates while Model 1 assumes constant volatility of future
short-term rates. Statement 3: The constant drift model (Model 2) is a more flexible model
than the Ho-Lee model.  How many of his statements are correct? 
A.0
B.1
C.2
D.3
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】Only statement 2 is correct. The Vasicek model implies decreasing volatility and
non-parallel shifts from changes in short-term rates. The Ho-Lee model is actually more general
than Model 2 (the no drift and constant drift models are special cases of the Ho-Lee
model). (5)
 
43.An empirical distribution of equity price derived from the price of options of such stock
based on BSM that exhibits a fatter right tail than that of a lognormal distribution would
indicate:
A.Equal implied volatilities across low and high strike prices.
B.Greater implied volatilities for low strike prices.
C.Greater implied volatilities for high strike prices.
D.Higher implied volatilities for mid-range strike prices.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】An empirical distribution with a fat right tail generates a higher implied
volatility for higher strike prices due to the increased probability of observing high
underlying asset prices.  (8)
 
44.You are asked to mark to market a book of plain vanilla stock options. The trader is short
deep out-of-money options and long at-the-money options. There is a pronounced smile for these
options. The trader’s bonus increases as the value of his book increases. Which approach
should you use to mark the book?
A.Use the implied volatility of at-the-money options because the estimation of the volatility
is more
B.Use the average of the implied volatilities for the traded options for which you have data
because
C.For each option, use the implied volatility of the most similar option traded on the market.
D.Use the historical volatility because doing so corrects for the pricing mistakes in the
option mark
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The prices obtained with C are the right ones because they correspond to prices at
which you could sell or buy the options.(2)
 
45.A European put option has two years to expiration and a strike price of $101.00. The
underlying is a 7% annual coupon bond with three years to maturity. Assume that the risk-
neutral probability of an up move is 0.76 in year 1 and 0.60 in year 2. The current interest
rate is 3.00%. At the end of year 1, the rate will either be 5.99% or 4.44%. If the rate in
year 1 is 5.99%, it will either rise to 8.56% or rise to 6.34% in year 2. If the rate in one
year is 4.44%, it will either rise to 6.34% or rise to 4.70%. The value of the put option today
is closet to:
A.$1.17
B.$1.30
C.$1.49
D.$1.98
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
46.An six-monthn analyst is using the delta-normal method to determine the VaR of a fixed
income portfolio. The portfolio contains a long position in 1-year bonds with a $1 million face
value and a 6% coupon that is paid semi-annually. The interest rates and twelve-month maturity
zero-coupon bonds are, respectively, 2% and 2.5%. Mapping the long position to standard
positions in the six-month and twelve-month zeros, respectively, provides which of the
following mapped positions?
A.$30,000 and 1,030,000
B.$29,500 and 975,610
C.$29,703 and 1,004,878
D.$30,300 and 1,035,000
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】
 
 
 
 
 
47.Basel II requires a backtest of a bank’s internal value at risk (VaR) model (IMA). Assume
the bank’s ten-day 99% VaR is $1 million (minimum of 99% is hard-wired per Basel). The null
hypothesis is: the VaR model is accurate. Out of 1,000 observations, 25 exceptions are observed
(we saw the actual loss exceed the VaR 25 out of 1000 observations). (Binomial CDF)
A.We will probably call the VaR model good (accurate) but we risk a Type I error.
B.We will probably call the VaR model good (accurate) but we risk a Type II error.
C.We will probably call the model bad (inaccurate) but we risk a Type I error.
D.We will probably call the model bad (inaccurate) but we risk a Type II error.
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】The probability of 25 or more exceptions will only be observed 1 – 99.996%. So, we
reject the model. Null = good model. To decide the model is bad model is to reject null and
this implies a risk of type I error.(5)
 
48.Which of the following statements regarding verification of a VAR model by examining its
failure rates is false?I. The frequency of exceptions should correspond to the confidence level
used for the model.II. According to Kupiec (1995), we should reject the hypothesis that the
model is correct if the LR>3.84.III. Backtesting VAR models with lower confidence levels is
difficult because the number of exceptions is not high enough to provide meaningful
information.IV. The range for the number of exceptions must strike a balance between the
chances of rejecting an accurate model (a type 1error) and the chance of accepting an
inaccurate model (a type2 error)
A.I and IV
B.II only
C.III only
D.II and IV
参考答案：C
【莽学解析】Backtesting VAR models with higher confidence levels is difficult because the
number of exceptions is not high enough to provide meaningful information.(3)
 
49.An analyst is backtesting a daily holding period VaR model using a 97.5% confidence level
over a 255-day period and is using a 3.84 test statistic. The following table shows the
calculated values of a log-likelihood ratio (LR) at a 97.5% confidence level. 
 
 
 Based on the above information, which of the following statements accurately describes the
VaR model that is being backtested?  
A.If the number of exceptions is more than 3, we would not reject the model.
B.If the number of exceptions is more than 2 and less than 12, we may commit a Type II error.
C.If the number of exceptions is less than 2, we would accept the hypothesis that the model is
correc
D.If the number of exceptions is less than 2, we may commit a Type II error.
参考答案：B
【莽学解析】If the number of exceptions is more than 2 and less than 12, we would not reject
the model because the calculated LR is less than 3.84. If we do not reject the model, we may
commit a TypeII error. A Type II error is defined as accepting an inaccurate model. If the
number of exceptions is less than 2, we reject the model because the calculated LR is greater
than 3.84. If we accept the model, we cannot commit a Type I error. A Type I error is defined
as rejecting an accurate model.(5)
 
50.The peaks-over-threshold (POT) approach is used by a firm to apply extreme value theory
(EVT) to the distribution of excess losses over a high threshold. The firm estimated the
following parameter values: distribution scale parameter = 0.90, distribution shape parameter =
0.15, threshold = 1%, and number of observations that exceed threshold / threshold = 5%.
Compute the 1% VaR in percentage terms and the corresponding expected shortfall measure.
A.VaR = 2.64%, and ES = 3.98%.
B.VaR = 2.51%, and ES = 3.54%.
C.VaR = 2.27%, and ES = 3.21%.
D.VaR = 2.19%, and ES = 3.12%.
参考答案：A
【莽学解析】
